---
layout: blog-post
title: Pairing and Feedback
---
<h2 class="article_subtitle">Pairing</h2>

I've mostly enjoyed pairing with other people. It helps keep me focused and it forces me to do things "the right way", and not blow off writing the pseudocode until the end. The parts I enjoy are when things go smoothly or when I either get to learn something new or teach someone something they didn't know. As much as these sessions are enjoyable, nothing beats getting things done efficiently to me. Learning a new trick is of course always lovely and something I always look forward to. I've also luckily enough often been in the position to reciprocate and do something that my pair didn't know about, and that always feels good. There are a couple times where I ran into some difficulties while pairing. Sometimes I have trouble clearly expressing my intentions when we get to a tricky bit of code. The second most common issue I have is that I sometimes need to think by myself on some things, and so I'll often find myself zoning my pair out completely while I go into the think tank. I feel it's a little rude on my part, but it's just part of how I think and work.

<h2 class="article_subtitle">Feedback</h2>

Feedback is one aspect of DBC I've been having trouble with. It invariably ends up something I put off, be it writing it or receiving it. Writing especially is difficult. I never feel like my feedback is very meaningful and I often struggle to find things to say beyong "good session, we got a lot of things done". Regarding the feedback I've received, it's been mostly positive. I've had a few people tell me one small detail or the other, but a lot of it simply said that I was a good pair and that they were pleased with how things went. It's certainly reassuring to hear that I'm apparently a decent human being and a helpful guy, but I rarely feel completely satisfied with my own performance. Sometimes I can point out specific moments where I wasn't clear with my argument or where I got confused on something or other, but sometimes I just feel like I didn't do as good as I could have but can't really explain how. The feedback I've received didn't really match with my personal impression and it's been bothering me a little bit. Not too much obviously since like I said, the people I've paired with have been overall happy (or maybe I just never got the bad feedback, heh). Overall, I think pairing is really cool and it helps me a lot in many ways, including pacing myself on the week's work, but feedback is a little tedious. Obviously, one goes with the other and they really only shine together, but as far as my personal experience goes, I haven't found outside feedback to be particularly relevant. Ironically, as quick as I am to find faults in myself, I often have trouble finding things to say about my peers.